nested (#3946)
Textualize/textual: docs/guide/CSS.md

Reviewer: One thing that isn't clear _to me_ from reading the updated guide is how we'd nest something like

```css
A {
    ...
}

A > B {
    ...
}

A > B > C {
    ...
}
```

Will the nested selectors be `> B` and `> C` or `& > B` and `& > C`?

Author: `& > B` and `& > V`

Reviewer: Worth mentioning in the guide or not really?

Author: Not sure if it is required, There's nothing special about the > operator.

Note that `initial` will set the value back to the value defined in any [default css](./widgets.md#default-css).
If you use `initial` within default css, it will treat the rule as completely unstyled.

## Nesting CSS

!!! tip "Added in version 0.47.0"

CSS rule sets may be *nested*, i.e. they can contain other rule sets.
When a rule set occurs within an existing rule set, it inherits the selector from the enclosing rule set.

> Let's put this in to practical terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's put this into practical terms.
```

The following example will display two boxes containing the text "Yes" and "No" respectively.
These could eventually form the basis for buttons, but for this demonstration we are only interested in the CSS.

=== "nesting01.tcss (no nesting)"

>     ```sass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```css
```

After #3902 we changed to `css` in Textual CSS snippets.

    --8<-- "docs/examples/guide/css/nesting01.tcss"
    ```

=== "nesting01.py"

    ```python
    --8<-- "docs/examples/guide/css/nesting01.py"
    ```

=== "Output"

    ```{.textual path="docs/examples/guide/css/nesting01.py"}
    ```

> The CSS is quite straight forward; there is a rule for the container, all buttons, and a rule each for the yes and no buttons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CSS is quite straightforward; there is a rule for the container, all buttons, and a rule each for the yes and no buttons.
```

Reviewer: I'd go even further.
As a non-native English speaker, from the sentence alone I need to read it 3 or 4 times to be sure of how many rules in total there are.
Something slightly more verbose may be exponentially clearer:

```suggestion
The CSS is quite straightforward; there is one rule for the container, one for all buttons, and one rule for each of the buttons.
```

However it is easy to imagine this stylesheet growing more rules as we add features.

Nesting allows us to group rule sets which have common selectors.

> In the example above, the rules all start with `#questions`, which is a good indication that we can nest the rules.

Reviewer: This sets the expectation for nesting of the `#questions`, but not the `#questions .button`.
Would it be worth adding one sentence to say something like

```suggestion
In the example above, the rules all start with `#questions`, which is a good indication that we can nest the rules.
We can also see that the last three rules all start with `#questions .button`, which means we can nest the rules even further.
```

Author: Changed the wording to suggest it is a general principle, and not just for this one thing

The following produces identical results to the previous example, but adds nesting of the rules.

=== "nesting02.tcss (with nesting)"

>     ```sass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```css hl_lines="7 15 20"
```

After #3902 we changed to `css` in Textual CSS snippets.

Author: Why highlight those lines? Most of the lines have changed.

Reviewer: Those show the nested selectors, which are the most significant changes (most lines changed in indentation, not content).
This was just a suggestion!

Author: I'd like to stick to the convention of highlighting changed lines. Since they all changed though, it seems redundant here.

    --8<-- "docs/examples/guide/css/nesting02.tcss"
    ```

=== "nesting02.py"

    ```python
    --8<-- "docs/examples/guide/css/nesting02.py"
    ```

=== "Output"

    ```{.textual path="docs/examples/guide/css/nesting02.py"}
    ```

In the first example we had a rule set that began with the selector `#questions .button`, which would match any widget with a class called "button" that is inside a container with id `questions`.

In the second example, the button rule selector is simply `.button`, but it is *within* the rule set with selector `#questions`.
The nesting means that the button rule set will inherit the selector from the outer rule set, so it is equivalent to `#questions .button`.

### Nesting selector

The two remaining rules are nested within the button rule, which means they will inherit their selectors from the button rule set *and* the outer `#questions` rule set.

You may have noticed that the rules for the button styles contain a syntax we haven't seen before.
The rule for the Yes button is `&.affirmative`.

> The ampersand (`&`) is known as the *nesting selector* and it tells Textual that the selector should be combined with the selector from the outer rule-set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ampersand (`&`) is known as the *nesting selector* and it tells Textual that the selector should be combined with the selector from the outer rule set.
```

`rule set` seems to mostly be used everywhere else.

So `&.affirmative` in the example above, produces the equivalent of `#questions .button.affirmative` which selects a widget with both the `button` and `affirmative` classes.
Without `&` it would be equivalent to `#questions .button .affirmative` (note the additional space) which would only match a widget with class `affirmative` inside a container with class `button`.

For reference, lets see those two CSS files side-by-side:

=== "nesting01.tcss"

>     ```sass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```css
```

After #3902 we changed to `css` in Textual CSS snippets.

    --8<-- "docs/examples/guide/css/nesting01.tcss"
    ```

=== "nesting02.tcss"

    ```sass
    --8<-- "docs/examples/guide/css/nesting02.tcss"
    ```

> ### Why used nesting?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why use nesting?
```

> There is no requirement to use nested CSS, but it can help to group related rule-sets together (which makes it easier to edit). Nested CSS can also help you avoid some repetition in your selectors, i.e. in the nested CSS we only need to type `#questions` once, rather than four times in the non-nested CSS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is no requirement to use nested CSS, but it can help to group related rule sets together (which makes it easier to edit). Nested CSS can also help you avoid some repetition in your selectors, i.e. in the nested CSS we only need to type `#questions` once, rather than four times in the non-nested CSS.
```
